# PBD_analog
Test the analogy between the protracted birth-death model and the birth-death model.

## Overview
Calculation of equivalent birth and death rates under the protracted birth death models. 

Simulations and statistics of phylogenies under the protracted 
birth-death (PBD) and BD models following the works from 
> Etienne, R. S., & Rosindell, J. (2012). Prolonging the Past Counteracts the Pull of the Present: Protracted Speciation Can Explain Observed Slowdowns in Diversification. _Systematic Biology, 61_, 204.

> Etienne, R. S., Morlon, H., & Lambert, A. (2014). Estimating the duration of speciation from phylogenies. _Evolution, 68_, 2430–2440.

Test of the analog expressions of birth and death rates from the PBD model. 

## Project architecture
* `1-rates_analysis`: calculate equivalent birth and death rates of the PBD model and analyse these rates. 
* `2-simulate_trees`: simulate trees under
    * the PBD model
    * the BD model with constant rates with equivalent constant rates to the PBD models
    * the BD model with time-dependent rates with equivalent rates to the PBD model 
* `3-compare_PBD_BD_varBD` : compare the trees obtained with the 3 models.
* `fig` : figures generated by the scripts
* `illustrations` : hand-made figures for the publication
* `modules`: global functions used in the pipeline
* `simulations_output` : raw of the simulations.

## Figures 
The file `customstyle.mplstyle` defines a global style for the Matplotlib figures.
```
# Python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.style.use("customstyle.mplstyle")
```

## Contact
* Pierre Veron (`pierre.veron.2017@polytechnique.org`)
* Jérémy Andréoletti